# Loan-Default-Analysis
## Introduction
Loan default is a common practice among customers who take loans from financial organizations like banks. The main objective of the analysis is to analyze whether customers are legible for loans depending on whether they are likely to default or not. The analysis comprises a series of steps that include data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis and model development.
## Data Preprocessing
The first step was to check for data quality to get accurate analysis results. I checked for missing values in the data. There were various missing values which were imputed using various measures. For numerical columns, they were imputed using the mean while the mode was used to impute categorical columns. I also checked for outliers in numerical columns. There were several columns with outliers which were not dropped because they are important in the analysis. Some of the columns with outliers include LTV and several others as shown below. 
## Exploratory Data Analysis
The next step was to conduct exploratory data analysis to understand patterns and relationships in the data. Histograms were used to show distribution among numerical columns and bar plots showing count of various groups of categorical variables were also used. 
For instance, in analyzing the reason for taking loans, majority of individuals took loans for purpose p3, followed by p4 and few of them took loans for p2.  In terms of credit worthiness, majority of the customers belong to the first group. The visualizations help in understanding the behavioral patterns among the customers. 
## Model Development
The final stage is model development where a classification model is developed to categorize users according to loan legibility. This depends on various factors that determine whether individuals are likely to default or not. Logistic regression model was used in the classification. The first step was identifying independent and dependent variables. The status column is the dependent variable in this analysis. The variables re then split into train and test sets. The categorical variables are then transformed to numerical form, ready for model development. Once the model is instantiated and fitted to the data, prediction is done on the test set. Finally, the model is evaluated by various metrics. In this case, the accuracy score is 0.75.
